Initial proposal for social media working group. (#6)
django/dsf-working-groups: active/social-media.md

# Social Media Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

> This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles on behalf of the Django Software Foundation.
```

The goals of the group are:
- Promote the use of Django among the World Wide Web development community.

> - Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships/campaigns.

Reviewer: I like how this is tied directly to the DSF’s purpose!

The group opts to manage platforms that best achieve these goals - which may be a subset of where Django is or could be engaging.

Delegated responsibilities:
- The Chair can grant access to Django's official social media profiles and each member will have access.
- Members can post content to Django's official social media profiles, in alignment with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.
- Members can like/repost/comment as Django, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

> - The working group can post content on djangoproject.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The working group can post content on djangoproject.com when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals.
```

> Actions to take back to the Board for votes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions to take back to the DSF Board for votes:
```

- Amendments to the working group's goals.
- Approval on content that is outside the agreed group's goals.
- Proposals of social media campaigns for our sponsors.
- Proposal to have a new social media profile on a platform.
- Proposal to retire a social media profile from a platform.

## Initial membership

- Chair:
- Co-Chair:

> - Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Char):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair):
```

- Other members:

## Future membership

> **Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?**

Reviewer: For accessibility, if something looks like a heading, make it so

```suggestion
### Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?
```

> Members must have some experience using at least one of Django's social media platforms (such as X).

Reviewer: I’d keep it simpler – and make it easier to check new members by requiring Individual Membership. If someone isn’t an individual member but we otherwise think they would be a good fit, we can suggest specific contributions for them to demonstrate their commitment to contributing to Django and apply for membership once the time is right.

```suggestion
Members must have demonstrable experience with social media platforms, and be registered as a Django Software Foundation Individual Member.
```

Author: This is a good idea. We can send an email out in the DSF mailing list to gage interest in joining the group.

> **How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?
```

By sending an email to: `social-media-wg@djangoproject.com`

This email should include:

> - why they want to join
> - what experience/skills they bring to the role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- why they want to join
- what experience/skills they bring to the role
- links to their social media profiles
```

All members should have access to this email.

> **How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?
```

The working group will discuss and vote (50%+1) to approve new members.

If any member wishes to leave the group, they can do so without a vote.

> Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

Reviewer: I would recommend we add a "opt-in membership" clause. It’s important people have an easy way out of the group when they don’t feel like being involved anymore.

Doing it on a regular basis will also help the group in making calls for new members when needed.

```suggestion
Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

Members join the group for a 6-month term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involve to keep being a member of the group.
```

# Social Media Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles on behalf of the Django Software Foundation.

The goals of the group are:
- Promote the use of Django among the World Wide Web development community.

> - Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships/campaigns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships/campaigns.
- Assist the board in posting official news and updates from DSF.
- Maintain and monitor automation in connection with posting DSF news and updates to social media channels.
- Enforce the Django Code of Conduct on Django's social media channels, such as deleting comments that do not meet our CoC or blocking users that grossly repeatedly violate the CoC.
```

I'm not sure exactly how to phrase this. But it's basically supposed to cover the "status quo".

Oh and then I added the CoC thing :)

Author: Ah that's a really good point, thank you!

The group opts to manage platforms that best achieve these goals - which may be a subset of where Django is or could be engaging.

Delegated responsibilities:
- The Chair can grant access to Django's official social media profiles and each member will have access.
- Members can post content to Django's official social media profiles, in alignment with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.
- Members can like/repost/comment as Django, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

> - The working group can post content on djangoproject.com, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if there are established guidelines for this one already? :thinking:

Reviewer 3: “on djangoproject.com” is vague - does this mean the blog, or somewhere else on the site?

Also, the blog is a different kind of channel as posts have a specific individual author, rather than “Django”.

Author: I have decided to remove it, I can't immediately see a need for doing a post here, so might not be required.

Reviewer: I don’t feel strongly about this but would recommend adding this back, focused on the blog. From experience, when doing multi-channel promotions it’s really useful if all the channels can point to one shared resource (so a blog post in this context). I also suspect Django blog posts also have a lot of visibility in "social" channels due to the RSS feed (for example Discord).

Members must have demonstrable experience with social media platforms, and be registered as a Django Software Foundation Individual Member.

### How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?

By sending an email to: `social-media-wg@djangoproject.com`

This email should include:
- why they want to join
- what experience/skills they bring to the role
- links to their social media profiles

All members should have access to this email.

### How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?

The working group will discuss and vote (50%+1) to approve new members.

Members join the group for a 6-month term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involve to keep being a member of the group.

If any member wishes to leave the group before the end of their term, they can do so without a vote.

Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

## Budget

The working group will have no allocated budget.

## Comms within the group

- Fortnightly synchronous meeting
- Collaborative documents when creating a content plan and/our campaign

> - Private channel on the Django discord server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Establish a private communication channel with logs.
```

I would just remove this and let the WG decide itself which communication platform to use :)

# Social Media Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles on behalf of the Django Software Foundation.

The goals of the group are:
- Promote the use of Django among the World Wide Web development community.

> - Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships/campaigns.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships and campaigns.
```

> - Assist the board in posting official news and updates from DSF.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Assist the board in posting official news and updates from the DSF.
```

- Maintain and monitor automation in connection with posting DSF news and updates to social media channels.

> - Enforce the DSF's Code of Conduct on DSF's social media channels. This can include moderating comments that do not meet our CoC or blocking users that grossly or repeatedly violate the CoC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Enforce the DSF's Code of Conduct on its social media channels.
  This can include moderating comments that do not meet our CoC or blocking users that grossly or repeatedly violate the CoC.
```

> The group opts to manage platforms that best achieve these goals - which may be a subset of where Django is or could be engaging.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The group opts to manage platforms that best achieve these goals.
This may be a subset of those for which Django has accounts.
```

Delegated responsibilities:
- The Chair can grant access to Django's official social media profiles and each member will have access.
- Members can post content to Django's official social media profiles, in alignment with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

> - Members can like/repost/comment as Django, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Members can perform actions such as “like”, ”repost” or “comment” as Django, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.
```

- The working group can post content on djangoproject.com, when it aligns with the working group's agreed goals, without a board review.

Actions to take back to the DSF Board for votes:
- Amendments to the working group's goals.
- Approval on content that is outside the agreed group's goals.
- Proposals of social media campaigns for our sponsors.
- Proposal to have a new social media profile on a platform.
- Proposal to retire a social media profile from a platform.

## Initial membership

- Chair:
- Co-Chair:
- Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair):
- Other members:

## Future membership

### Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?

Members must have demonstrable experience with social media platforms, and be registered as a Django Software Foundation Individual Member.

### How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?

By sending an email to: `social-media-wg@djangoproject.com`

This email should include:
- why they want to join

> - what experience/skills they bring to the role

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- what experience and skills they bring to the role
```

# Social Media Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles on behalf of the Django Software Foundation.

The goals of the group are:
- Promote the use of Django among the World Wide Web development community.

> - Protect the framework's long-term viability by generating revenue through sponsor relationships and campaigns.

Reviewer 4: Not sure if generating revenue is one of the goals of this WG.

Author: Re-phrased to:
> Protect the framework's long-term viability through campaigns and sponsor relations.

I think this working group can and should help with supporting the success of funding or sponsor campaigns but yes, is not resposible for generating revenue. Let me know if you have a nice way to say this 😁

Reviewer: I think the new working works well. It’s very common for non-profits to fundraise on social media these days, I imagine that’d work great for Django too.

- Assist the board in posting official news and updates from the DSF.

> - Maintain and monitor automation in connection with posting DSF news and updates to social media channels.

Reviewer 4: 🤔 This sounds more like a responsibility rather than goal.

Author: Tried to shift some things to the the 'Delegated responsibilities' section 👍

> - Enforce the DSF's Code of Conduct on its social media channels. This can include moderating comments that do not meet 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure the DSF’s Code of Conduct is maintained on its media channels.
```
And we can move the second part under responsibilities of the wg.

# Social Media Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

This working group will manage Django's official social media profiles on behalf of the Django Software Foundation.

The goals of the group are:
- Promote the use of Django among the World Wide Web development community.
- Protect the framework's long-term viability through campaigns and sponsor relations.
- Ensure the DSF’s Code of Conduct is maintained on its media channels.
- Assist the board in posting official news and updates from the DSF.

The group opts to manage platforms that best achieve these goals.
This may be a subset of those for which Django has accounts.

Delegated responsibilities:

> - The Chair can grant access to Django's official social media profiles and each member will have access.

Reviewer: I would recommend two changes:

- Rather than just the Chair, extend this responsibility to the Co-Chair and Board Liaison. Less bottleneck.
- Rather than mandating all members having access, leave some room to figure out who has access to what based on what’s practical. Not all platforms have the same amount of capabilities to manage shared accounts.

```suggestion
- The Chair, Co-Chair and Board Liaison can grant access to Django's official social media profiles to other group members as needed.
```

  agreed goals, without a board review.
- Members can perform maintenance and monitor the automations which post DSF news and updates to social media channels.
- Members can enforce the Code of Conduct. This may include moderating comments that do not meet our CoC or blocking 
  users that grossly or repeatedly violate the CoC.

Actions to take back to the DSF Board for votes:
- Amendments to the working group's goals.
- Approval on content that is outside the agreed group's goals.
- Proposals of social media campaigns for our sponsors.
- Proposal to have a new social media profile on a platform.
- Proposal to retire a social media profile from a platform.

## Initial membership

- Chair:
- Co-Chair:
- Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair):
- Other members:

## Future membership

### Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?

Members must have demonstrable experience with social media platforms, and be registered as a Django Software Foundation
Individual Member.

### How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?

> By sending an email to: `social-media-wg@djangoproject.com`

Reviewer: Could this be done with Google Forms rather than email? The emails I receive from public DSF `foundation@` address are 80% spam. Using a form would also help in communicating what information we expect from new members.

If so, the form would be set up under the DSF’s Google Workspace, all entries would go in a spreadsheet, the group would review entries as they come in just like over email.

Author: Sure good point 👍 

Note: this (or something else) could become standard for all working groups. We can have a list of working groups and an application form for each on the website and the group only needs to define the questions. It will be easier for people to form working groups when we have some defined as "standard"

This email should include:

> - why they want to join

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- why they want to join
- confirmation they are registered as an Individual Member
```

- what experience and skills they bring to the role
- links to their social media profiles

All members should have access to this email.

### How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?

The working group will discuss and vote (50%+1) to approve new members.

> Members join the group for a 6-month term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involve to keep being 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members join the group for a 6-month term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involved to keep being 
```
